This lesson we're going to be setting up and preparing for our application to come.
So we need to have some h t M-L here.
Creating a div give it an idea of output.
This is where our content is going to be output because we're loading some dynamic content and we need
a place to put it.
We also need a way to initiate our AJAX call.
We're going to do this with just a simple input button.
And also just going to use ID.
So just do we can do something like search and also give it a value of search.
So there we go.
So we've got the basic mechanics that we need in order to get things running.
And now we're ready to start implementing some javascript in order to add or event listener.
And also just to make sure that everything is ready to go.
So first of all let's do a window on load.
And within this window on load.
So whenever the window object loads then we're going to fire off a function and this function is going
to add our event listeners.
So let's select our elements so document get element by id cause we do have an ID for it and the ID
is search.
So whenever somebody clicks the search button we want to add an event listener.
So that's our event listener.
Make this a little bit bigger so that you can see the full statement there on one line of code.
Click.
And then when it gets clicked then what we're going to do is we're going to say show results.
So we'll create a function for our show results.
So there we go.
So we're all set to create our function.
So next because we're calling to a function called show results we need to create that function and
we don't need to pass in any parameters because all of this is going to be done on the fly.
So and here let's just do a console log and clicked.
Usually what I like to do is I like to use console log in order to make sure that everything is hooked
up properly.
What we want to happen is the user to have a button here that they can click and when they click that
button then it fires off the event and returns back this function which is the console log clicked.
And we're not going to be making use of output yet.
And also later on we're also going to have to add another input so that the user can actually search
for whatever they're looking for.
But for now we're going to keep the SAYS is and try it.
So it's always the first step.
Make sure that everything is working.
So you've got your core mechanics up and ready to run.
The reason I added the window on load.
Usually I like to make sure that the document has loaded so window on it is usually good enough to add
in those that listeners.
You could also just do it by document Get elements by id search and then add in that event listener
as well.
It's going to work most of the time in case you put your javascript above within the head section.
It's always a good idea to make sure that your document object has loaded before you try to select those
elements in that event listeners.
So that's it for the first lesson.
And now it's your turn.
So go to your editor open up your editor whichever editor of choice you're using.
And the reason I like to use brackets is because it's got this this button here which is the live server.
So this is available or life preview and it's available within brackets.
And basically what it does is it gives you an IP address.
So instead of using the protocol the file protocol which normally if we opened up our age to a mail
page in the browser we'd be using the file protocol.
It allows us to have an age to the protocol and this is important to understand for Ajax because you
will depending on the browser encounter some errors.
Occasionally if you're trying to use different protocols.
So it's always good to stay with the HTP protocol or set up a local server and run it off of there so
run your file off of there.
So next lesson we're ready to jump in and start connecting and adding even more functionality.
So all of that is coming up in the next lesson.